Oh, it's Lǐ. Lǐ is here!
Lǐ Mùbái is here!
Xiùlián!
Xiùlián! Lǐ Mùbái is here!
MAN: Welcome back, Master Lǐ.
LĬ MÙBÁI: Thank you.
How is everything?
WOMAN: Fine, fine.
Please come in.
I cannot believe you are here.
How long it has been.
Ages.
You've been handling a lot of freight?
Enough. And how are you?
Well.
Brother Zheng came by and said he
saw you on the mountain at Wudang.
That you were studying deep meditation.
It must be so relaxing.
I'm so envious - you've no idea.
My work keeps me so busy,
I can hardly get a moment's rest.
I broke training.
Or rather, withdrew.
What? But I always thought
discipline was everything in Wudang.
One day, during meditation training,
I rose to a plain where there was utter silence.
I was bathed in light.
And suddenly, time and space did not exist.
Only absolute radiance.
So wonderful, I could not understand why the master had not shared it.
And then I felt...
Enlightened.
No, because I did not sense
the overwhelming bliss that one should feel.
I felt that it was
something like despair, but greater.
An immense sorrow so intense,
I could not take it.
I could not go on. I failed.
Something was saying, return to *Mierti.
Something?
That I do not wish to let die.
Why so many men?
We are about to go to Beijing.
To escort Xingyang's yearly shipment of silk.
I wonder if I could ask you
to deliver something for me to Bèi-lèyé.
The Green Destiny?
You're giving it to Bèi-lèyé?
Yes. Bèi-lèyé has always been our greatest protector.
You cannot do it, Mu Bai.
That sword is like your brother.
It's been a part of you forever.
This sword has taken more
than its share of lives.
It looks innocent, doesn't it?
With no traces of blood on it.
But its heart is pure.
It needs the master it belongs to.
I need to end this kind of life.
Then it's... over?
I know what, come with me to Beijing.
It would be nicer to
hand it personally to Bèi-lèyé.
Remember the early days
in Beijing with Master Pen.
I can never forget.
It's now 10 years since he was...
killed by Bìyǎn Húli.
To this day, she has never been punished.
Yet here I am, seriously thinking of withdrawing.
I will kneel at
Pen's grave and ask forgiveness.
Yes, I understand.
But why not join me there afterwards?
I can stay in Beijing.
It's possible.
Do not block the street.
Don't worry. Many thanks.
*Jin-jang, straight to the warehouse.
Let's go.
(PEOPLE CHATTERING)
Not one bundle lost.
I cannot thank you enough.
No, it is my job and I must
say it is simple when no one attacks you.
I am sure the robbers never bother you because
they know there is no way for them to win.
Your father may have started it, but you have
certainly made your security escort the best there is.
Now you are being too kind.
It is the simple truth
and I'm grateful for it.
(DRUMS BEATING)
Lǐ Mùbái and the Green Destiny.
A powerful pair.
And a legend in China.
No one is worthy of it but he.
And now he wants to leave it to an old man?
Well, I say no. Too precious.
The Green Destiny is as much a
source of woe as it is of glory.
Taking it would be helping him
shed his old way of life.
I'm sure you can
see the wisdom in that.
Hmm. All right.
But only until he wants it back.
Excuse me. Governor Yù is here, sir.
Coming.
- Thank you.
Really, Bèi-lèyé.
You have done so much for us.
We are forever in your debt and if Lǐ and I can do...
Yes, come more often.
And to start with,
you're going to spend the night.
Now, Xiùlián,
tell me something, and forgive me for prying.
But your late father was a
great and loyal friend to me
and as a result,
I've come to think of you as my own daughter.
Bèi-lèyé, is something right or is something wrong?
Lǐ Mùbái renouncing his sword and his position.
His warrior's life.
I would think he's
trying to tell you something.
I would not know.
Don't play the innocent with me.
I've known about the two of
you from the start, all these years.
It's a shame neither
of you has enough courage
to admit the truth to one another.
You're wasting precious time.
Don't wait too long.
It is not that Mu
Bai and I are cowards.
It is just that, some
topics are not easy to address.
(CHUCKLING)
In affairs of the heart, even the
greatest hero can be a consummate idiot.
The next time you are together, you tell
Mu Bai that time has come for straight-talking.
If he won't, I'm
the one he'll answer to.
The master said to put
the sword in the study.
Yes?
I'm one of your guests.
I'm Governor Yù's daughter.
Ah. This is the master's study.
What is it that...
Just looking for a room to sit
in silently and not be a nuisance.
Ah. I am head servant, De Lu.
And this is another of our guests.
I must say, it's heavy for
such a thin piece of metal.
It is all in the hilt.
And the blade is no ordinary metal.
Still, the sword as
weapons go, is wonderfully light.
The problem is always
getting used to handling them.
It's not a problem for me at all.
When I was little, the western
residence had a garrison of Imperials.
They would let me play guard every day.
This scabbard is so beautiful.
And so is the sword.
Except when it is tainted with blood.
Imagine, this work is 400 years old.
Exquisite.
Sorry, you said it belongs to...
A friend of mine, the warrior, Lǐ Mùbái.
He has decided to give it to Bèi-lèyé.
Lǐ Mùbái! The greatest of all the warriors?
To Bèi-lèyé?
I wouldn't give up something
like that in a million years.
It is a long story. About swords.
You sound like a real expert.
Oh yes, but I prefer the
guan dao to a normal blade.
I'm not much good with a straight sword.
For certain moves, however, you really need this.
Blood.
I guess it's wonderful being a warrior.
To be totally free.
Even our Jiang Hu world has a certain code.
Integrity, trust,
Friendship.
Without rules, none of
us would survive very long.
I've read all about
the great fighters like you.
Roaming wild, dispensing with those
who get in your way!
If they told how it really
is, they wouldn't sell many books.
You're just like in the stories.
Ha. No place to bathe for days.
Sleeping on the ground or in flea infested beds.
Is all that in the tales?
In two weeks, I'm marrying.
Only, it's really not the
type of life that I want.
But it is a
good arrangement. So I hear.
Congratulations.
To get married is a joyous event.
You're not married, by chance?
Think I am?
No. You couldn't roam around so freely.
You are an opponent
I better not argue with.
Bèi-lèyé: Go ahead, governor.
33 inches long, 1-1/10 inches wide.
The hilt is 8
inches long, 2.6 inches wide,
And 7/10 of an inch thick,
With seven rubies missing from the guard.
The design tells you that it was made before
the Qing dynasty and engraved with a technique that...
(SWORD CLANGING)
by the time the Han
started to rule, was long-lost.
Bèi-lèyé, they should appoint you court historian.
A sword by itself doesn't rule.
A sword lives through skillful handling.
Please continue, you have an avid listener.
The Imperial court isn't our concern.
With officials and royalty on every street corner,
you can be sure the
Royal Guard keeps security tight.
But Beijing is not a
wilderness like the Western provinces.
This is a world full of wild characters.
Your quest to run a healthy city
depends not on the judges and their courts,
it's by courting the warrior, the Jiang Hu,
that your position will always be safe.
To be strong and supple is the secret.
To ride out the storm.
(KNOCK AT DOOR)
Governess.
You can leave.
There you are.
Would you like to try these silk pyjamas?
I've just made them.
Put them down.
I hear you met Yù Xiùlián today.
You know her?
She's one of those women, your
mother wouldn't like you seeing one bit.
I will socialise with those I want.
Your father's career could suffer for it.
- Please, I'm tired.
All right?
So, go to bed.
Milady is grown now.
Getting married soon.
Who knows what the future will bring us.
The same old things.
Look, I'm tired. Are you done?
It's autumn. I'll bolt the
windows as I go out.
MAN: Chilly, eh?
- It certainly is, sir.
All right, who goes -
Thief! Get down from there!
Someone help! There is a thief here! Help me!
He is on the roof!
Help me!
He is up on the
roof! Do something! Help me!
Look, he's taken the sword! After him!
(MEN SHOUTING)
Hang on, I'm coming!
Do not let him get away! I'm coming!
Come back here!
(YELLING)
You let him get away. You coward.
Return the sword, and
I will let you go.
You have been trained at Wudang?
Well, you've got the wrong impression.
We're street performers from out of town.
We're just rehearsing.
So leave us alone.
- Father.
Just rehearsing!
Go and tell another one.
Where could that thief have gone?
Governor Yù's house.
(GRUNTING)
XIÙLIÁN: Get down here!
Get down.
Give it here.
Bèi-lèyé is waiting for you.
BO: I did not get it
back but I know where he went.
I saw him as he was
scaling the wall of the governor's house.
Careful.
- I saw him, really, sir!
That's enough!
Did you show the governor the weapon?
Yes, of course. Only,
I will not believe he's involved.
That is not to say the
sword is not in his household.
A good way to discredit
a politician and bring him down.
In that case, it's
Lǐ Mùbái's help we need.
GOVERNESS: Watch your step, madam.
Uh oh, slipped.
- Madam Yù?
What is it?
- Someone has put wanted posters up.
Oh.
(MEN CHATTERING)
Let me see.
Someone is searching for a Jade Fox.
Why would they look in the governor's residence?
I am talking about spear
fighting like you have never seen!
The Yang School of Spear Fighting !
(BELL RINGING)
(PEOPLE CHATTERING)
Talk!
- I don't know! I tell you, I don't follow people around!
Well, maybe I saw them a
few days ago, if it was them!
No reward?
There is a lady asking to see you.
A Miss Xiùlián.
She has no time to see her.
Very well, Governess.
Show the lady in.
As you say.
Trouble. I will stay here just in case.
You will not.
Please, go right in.
My favourite legend is here! How nice!
You missed me, then?
- I'm bored without company!
Excellent!
I'll write your name. I like that.
I never noticed how much my
name looks like the word for sword.
You are definitely... talented.
Calligraphy demands the same control as fencing.
It all lies in the wrist.
I wouldn't know.
Maybe it does.
Let's sit.
Thank you for receiving me.
I'm told you are nearing your wedding day.
I imagine you are spending
a lot of time getting ready.
I'm hardly lifting a finger at all.
I'm not even thinking about it.
My parents are arranging everything.
We became acquainted with Lǔ Jūn Pèi when we first got here.
My mother says the Lǔ clan
is very powerful and highly ranked.
And that my marrying one of them
will help father's career a great deal.
Entering such a noble house,
I should think, is a great honour.
Yes, but I wish that I were like
the exciting heroes in the stories I read.
Characters like Lǐ Mùbái and yourself.
I suppose I'm happy to be marrying.
But when the choice is yours,
to choose a certain life, and when
you're free to choose whom to love
and how to love him, that's real happiness.
Think so? I shall tell you a story.
Is Lǐ Mùbái in it?
And me, yes. I was
also once engaged to be married.
You were?
His name was Meng Si Zhao.
He and Lǐ Mùbái were bound-by-oath.
And one winter day,
they ran into a trap.
Meng rescued Lǐ Mùbái and
in doing so, he was killed.
And so, I became
very close to Mu Bai,
and as we shared
adventures, our feelings grew stronger.
But after Meng's sacrifice, how
could we dishonour his memory?
So you see, I would
like your freedom as well.
And yet, I have never been allowed it.
But don't blame yourselves for it.
The way that Meng died is horrible.
That's how things happen.
I am a woman, who as
all women, is bound by tradition.
I do not know how it is with
the aristocracy, but it weighs a lot on me.
Please, let's just be women.
I would like us as sisters.
I really want us to be friends and be equal.
All right. Then as one sister to another, let me say,
I sincerely wish you the happiest of marriages.
MADAME YÙ: Will I
ever see a tree again?
Why could your father not
get an appointment closer to civilisation?
Miles of nothing!
Jiāolóng! Jiāolóng, are you listening to me?
Time to go!
(GROANING)
Help me, please!
Father!
I'm a friend, I am!
Please, please, don't murder me!
I couldn't care less about your sword.
How is it you
were there at the palace?
I'm after someone.
Bìyǎn Húli.
I'm really a police officer
of the Gen Su district.
There is a rumor that this
master criminal is in the Yù household.
She must have come with them from Xingyang.
But since he's governor,
I can't just barge in.
I have to... find a
way to lure the Fox out.
This Bìyǎn Húli, you say is a woman?
Right.
What is a fuss about - ah
thank you - let me handle her.
With all due respect
- I do not think you're up to it.
My late wife used to
be quite skilled at martial arts.
And Jade Fox, as Bìyǎn Húli
calls herself, killed her in four moves.
For which she'll answer also.
Chowder's ready!
Mmm chowder, oh I adore chowder.
I am glad but
- Father gets the first taste.
Hey!
Gone.
What does it say?
Come to Yellow Hill about midnight and we shall settle this.
- Fox
We've lured her out.
This way.
Xiùlián, you see who's here.
Bèi-lèyé believes it is a plot to embarrass governor Yù.
That it is political.
But there is something amiss in the Yù household.
I'm looking into it.
What is it about?
Jade Fox?  I don't believe it!
That woman here?
I know. We all
thought she'd flung to Xingyang.
I never thought she
would dare come back here.
And what safer place to
hide then with the governor?
So finally I can... avenge the master.
Be careful, Mu Bai.
This city is...
Is a beehive of power struggles.
For Bèi-lèyé, the most important thing is
not to get caught in the middle.
Your personal matters could complicate
things and, I mean —
Who knows if this
hanging these posters isn't —
To provoke complications.
Any idea who hung them up?
It was done at night.
Well, they claim Jade
Fox is at the governor's.
Now according to Bèi-lèyé, the very night the
sword was stolen, there was a fight near there.
Were you involved?
There was Bèi-lèyé's house guard who I believe
followed the thief to the Yùs.
Have you questioned him yet?
Not privately - it is a matter of...
But you have your men keeping
an eye on the governor's house?
No, I'd already sent them off.
I may have lost the
Green Destiny, only trust me -
I will get the sword back,
and soon, by using my own methods.
Look, I do not really care.
I am not concerned about property.
Well, it is a part of you, isn't it?
I mean, otherwise, why come?
What I meant was,
I did not know it was stolen until I got here.
Then, why did you...
Well, I thought we had made
- we had talked about it.
Pardon my intrusion.
Master Lǐ, your room is ready.
Thank you.
Could you show me the way?
BO: Not only is this
Jade Fox a murderer, she's a...
A rather unpunctual one.
BO: Halt! Show your face!
You scum!  I told you that night.
To leave me alone or
you'll pay with your life!
Pay with our life?
I doubt that very much.
If you surrender to us now,
you'll suffer less in the end.
If not, consider this your execution!
Father!  I shall avenge mother!
I will help you
join her, you little slut.
That is what you think!
You are going straight to hell!
(SCREAMING)
(GRUNTING)
(GROANS)
MAY: Father, stay back!
(SCREAMING)
TSAI: Get out of the way!
Watch out! It hurts!
TSAI: May!
And so you die!
Ambush won't work.
MAY: Father, are you all right?
TSAI: I'm fine.
The Wudang masters never killing
you was a great mistake.
You've had ten years to rally, Jade Fox!
Oh, you do not remember me, but you knew my
master, the greatest of all our teachers, *Li Dang Pen.
The year I was away, some woman arrived.
Disguised as a nun, poisoned *Li Dang and stole our secret training manual. Yes,
I think it is time you answered for what you did to us all!
Your master had no respect for women.
I was good enough to
sleep with, but not to teach!
What better punishment, than to
die by a woman's hands!
(SCREAMING)
You stole the secrets
of Wudang's highest martial arts.
But after ten years of
training, your moves are still undisciplined.
To die under a
Wudang's sword tonight is fitting...
and no disgrace!
*Wudang Dark, my disciple, is here! Together, we can kill them all!
- No, let's go!
How many Jade Fox's are there?
Wait, just let me
get rid of that meddler!
Who are you?
And what are you doing
with the Green Destiny sword?
That's my affair.
My name is Lǐ Mùbái.
The Green Destiny is mine.
Bìyǎn Húli is not
good enough to teach that.
That is a "Xuan Piu" move
- how do you know it?
Just improvising.
Ll MU BAI:
Who is your real master?
(GROANS)
MAY: Father!
I'll kill all of you.
- That's enough.
Come on, let's go.
Nevermind him, let's go!
It's not over yet, Lǐ Mùbái!
MAY: Father!
Father!
Father.
Who was Tsai Xiang?
He was my father, a policeman from *Jetsu.
And there are certain obligations
with the demise of an official.
Such as reporting it.
Yet you think the killer has
taken refuge in the governor's residence.
I'd sake my life on it.
Come with me.
This must be resolved.
Beijing doesn't need a scandal.
The simple solution is the direct one
- enter the house and find her.
I'll ferret out the Fox and whatever
gang she has got in no time.
You cannot just break in.
The governor is responsible for law and order in this city.
And any trouble at his residence, could embarrass
primarily the governor but also Bèi-lèyé.
It's a delicate problem.
Bèi-lèyé, is it possible to find some excuse to
invite the governor's wife and their daughter over here?
What do you have in mind?
The best way to trap
a fox is through her cub.
Oh, my goodness!
Bèi-lèyé's wife is spoiling us with all these wedding gifts.
She is being so considerate.
She is sorry she is not feeling
well and cannot act as a proper hostess.
I heard that something
was lost in the house.
And now Bèi-lèyé's wife is feeling ill.
We know who it is
that has taken the article.
And if the thief would
be good enough to return it,
I am sure that Bèi-lèyé
will pursue the matter no further.
That is good.
Though it is annoying when household
servants cannot keep their hands to themselves.
Bèi-lèyé knows that even
well-meaning people can make mistakes
from which personal ruin and disgrace
can extend to their entire families.
Well, do not be
too lenient with the culprit.
Yes. And I am sure we will see no mercy
granted, the murderer who has just shown up here in Beijing.
MADAME YU: Murderer?
Yes, and as it turns out, this
same woman killed Lǐ Mùbái's first instructor.
She murdered a policeman, the other
night, who had tracked her down.
MADAME YU: A female criminal! That is news!
Policeman? You say she killed an officer?
An inspector from *Jensu who
had been hunting her for years.
He even came here in disguise.
Well, I wonder if the thief
and the murderer are the same.
That, I rather doubt.
This particular thief is very unusual.
And much smarter than a mere killer.
Shalom and *greetings, sir.
Good good. Madame Yù,
I would like to
introduce Lǐ Mùbái, the renowned swordsman.
Madame Yù, it's a great honour,
very great, to meet you both.
The young lady is nearing her wedding day.
May your future be fortunate.
(DOOR CREAKING)
It's chilly. Come in and get warm.
Guarding you is my job.
Yes but... oh, never mind.
Do come in. There's no need
to fear Jade Fox if we're together.
LĬ MÙBÁI: Isn't it a
little late to be out?
Just give it to me.
I'll return the sword,
how and when I please.
(GROANS)
Your master, where is she?
None of your business!
LĬ MÙBÁI: Had enough flying?
(PANTING)
I can tell you have studied the technique,
But you have misunderstood quite a bit.
(SCOFFS)
You need real training with
someone who can teach you right.
You'd like to be my master, but
who knows if you have the skill?
LĬ MÙBÁI: You are right,
"li mu bai" means skill.
Wudang signifies skill.
Even this sword here stands for skill but
it is all really a state of mind.
Don't talk like a monk just
because you're in a temple. Just fight!
I am not after you.
Bìyǎn Húli is one I'm -
Leave her out of this!
Real skill comes without it.
(SCREAMS)
*Power withheld.
Action is reaction.
*No passion without restraint.
Know you're finished.
Now give yourself up and find yourself reborn.
There is a quick lesson
for you, just for a start.
Go ahead.
Why should I? It is practise, you need.
There are endless things you could
learn to do with the Green Destiny.
But to start with, you must
learn to hold it in stillness.
Why do you want to teach me?
Wudang is not an art for everyone.
I have always imagined myself as the teacher of a student truly worthy of it.
Aren't you afraid I'd kill
you once I mastered it?
Deep down, you are good,
so I will take my chances.
When I see that Bìyǎn Húli corruption has not tainted you,
I feel secure.
Wudang is a whorehouse!
You can keep your lessons to yourself!
You are home rather late,
or should I say early?
Why are you still here?
You know what you did?
You killed a police officer!
My whole family could
be ruined, thanks to you!
If it hadn't been for your sword robbery,
that police officer would never have tracked me down.
Wake up!
Don't forget you're a grown woman now.
Did you think stealing was fun?
That death is on your head as well as mine!
Come with me as my disciple
don't waste your life
married to some sycophantic bureaucrat.
Together, we'll steal the world.
I'll never go against the law!
Steal a sword is against the law!
But where could I go?
Why do I have to leave, any way?
- To be free!
To do whatever we like.
And to kill anyone
who gets in our way.
Even your father, should he -
Stop it, will you!
In Jiang Hu, that's how we live.
Kill or be killed.
Exciting, isn't it?
Why should I do it?
I owe you nothing!
My dear, you owe a lot!
You are still my disciple.
My life has been happily dedicated to that.
You believe I learned the skills I
have from your deciphering out the manual?
You couldn't read the symbols.
It was just the drawings I studied
while trusting you with the code.
You wouldn't have understood if
I'd explained it any way.
It's hard to admit but, you know
you've gone as far as you can go.
And because I was afraid you'd be hurt,
I hid my skills.
How Lǐ Mùbái reacted to
your skill the other night,
I became aware of how
much you kept from me.
Understand, I...
I started learning from you
in secret when I was 10.
You enchanted me with the
world of Jiang Hu, but...
when I realised I could
exceed you, you can't imagine...
how miserably alone I was!
With nobody to guide me,
no master I could turn to.
Who could say, "Do this."
Now, there's one thing for certain
- my lessons aren't over yet.
(SWORD CLANGING)
Are you happy to see the sword again?
Getting it back made me realise
how much I had missed it.
Only, it is no longer yours, is it?
You gave it to Bèi-lèyé.
True. But l must borrow
it for one final task.
Jade Fox still has
to die by it, yes?
Xiùlián, when you told lies for that
girl, did you know what you were hiding?
My task was to get back the sword
and not cause a scandal in the process.
I wasn't about to ruin a young
girl's life over nothing, or her father's either.
A hard thing to keep
balanced and you did it well.
It is this... your girl.
I saw her last night.
I was sure you'd
be on the look out.
She needs direction and training.
But she is the most
promising student I've ever seen.
She is an aristocrat.
She has nothing at all to do with us.
Mu Bai, this whole
thing will be over soon.
You kill Jade Fox and
let Jiāolóng marry Lǔ Jūn Pèi.
Her spirit is free.
I think she wants to start studying at Wudang.
Wudang does not train women.
Yes, well, she could be the exception.
A special case.
Otherwise, she could become a poison dragon if left on her own.
We must not meddle.
Say she is taken
and is trained at Wudang, her husband, with
his high rank, could be embarrassed by it.
I gave the sword to Bèi-lèyé,
hoping that I could start a new life,
but the world of Jiang Hu refuses
to let me go, and the bloodshed continues.
We cannot give up yet.
I wish that I could be part of...
You are a part, Xiùlián.
(CLATTERING)
Don't move!
Luó Xiǎohǔ!
Jiāolóng!
You shouldn't have come.
With such busy roofs as Beijing has,
it took me a
while to get in here.
I can't wait any longer. I want you.
I shouldn't have let you go.
Come with me, back to the desert.
You'll be happy there.
JIĀLÓNG: You've been looking
for me all this time?
Jiāolóng, stop playing with it.
I won't break it, Mother.
Charge!
(ALL SCREAMING)
Halt!
Dark Cloud!
Protect the carriages!
(ALL YELLING)
Form ranks to protect the carriages!
Guard the ladies with your lives.
Do not let them touch this carriage!
Jiāolóng, do not let them see you.
Pull down the shade!
It's all right, madam, do not be afraid.
(HORSES NEIGHING)
(SHOUTING)
Spare the women and children!
I said leave the women alone!
Leave the women alone!
Hey, hurry! I can't wait for you!
Catch up!
(GROANING)
(GRUNTING)
(PANTING)
Xiǎohǔ: Hey!
Your mother might miss you.
Run home to her.
(PEOPLE CHATTERING)
(MEN CLAMOURING)
Xiǎohǔ: Leave her alone!
Don't anyone touch her! She's mine!
(HORSES NEIGHING)
Xiǎohǔ: Hey, go back to your mother!
Jiāolóng: Give me my comb!
Xiǎohǔ: Please, let's rest.
Jiāolóng: I want my comb!
You're tired. You need rest.
Your horse needs water.
There's a spring here.
(LAUGHING)
Well, there was last year.
What's your name? Don't be shy.
I'm known as Dark Cloud.
The Hans call me that because I rain terror.
Well, I may not be a cloud, but I'm pretty dark.
And quick as lightning.
Here.
My real name is Xiǎohǔ. What's yours?
Give me my comb.
(GRUNTS)
You found an arrow.
I can make you a bow to go with it.
For hunting wild chicken.
Very good to eat.
You need to eat. Understand?
For you to regain the
strength to fight Dark Cloud.
Maybe you should eat more slowly
- you have lots of time.
(HUMMING)
(COUGHING)
It's better this way
with the temper you've got.
You filthy coward!
Come on, you're still mad?
I mean, at least you're talking.
You gonna tell me your name?
(SPITTING)
"Ptt" - that's a
beautiful name for a Han.
(SOBBING)
Relax. If I had in mind what you're thinking,
I'd have done it already.
You must want a bath.
Fresh water is hard to get here.
But I was able to bring some back.
You can wear my clothes when you're done.
They're clean.
Xiǎohǔ: Don't worry.
I will sing, so you
will always know where I am.
You will feel good
after the bath, but, uh...
no more rocks on the head.
(SINGING)
All this trouble, just
to get a comb back?
It's worth it.
It's a thing you wouldn't understand.
What is it to a barbarian?
I can use it to
pick fleas from my horse.
And by the way, I'm not a Han.
I'm Manchurian.
Oh, I'm sorry,
I could've sworn.
You were really a Han.
I want my comb back.
No one orders me around.
Give it back.
(GRUNTING)
Xiǎohǔ: One night, when I was little,
I saw a thousand stars fall out of the sky.
Where'd they all go?
I wondered.
Then I thought, maybe if I ride to the end of the desert,
I'd find them.
I'm an orphan.
I was always doing things alone.
So I rode out one morning and I've
been riding all over the desert ever since.
And after riding all over the desert,
I'm now a bandit.
And since he couldn't find the stars,
he robs young girls of their combs.
Out here, simple survival is the main occupation.
So, first thing, you
join others, form a group.
The group is your shelter, your strength.
I'm not a real bandit.
It's just easier that
way to fill my stomach.
So in your heart, you're still a
child searching, for where the stars fell.
A grown man, gazing at the sky.
And thinking the brightest star has fallen at his side.
The army is looking for you.
(MEN CHATTERING)
They're still out there, keep circling closer.
They'll stop some day.
They won't and I'll be running forever.
I'll run with you.
You should think about it.
You could grow tired of
this and weary of us.
Start to miss your father. Your mother.
If our daughter disappeared, we'd be out searching.
We'd miss her and she'd miss us.
Jiāolóng, I want to earn your hand.
What if I leave the desert
and make my mark in this world?
We nomads have a legend.
See that mountain, there on the right?
Jump off, your wish will be granted.
A long time ago, a man's
children were very ill, so he jumped.
He didn't die, wasn't even hurt.
He just floated away, happily, never to return.
He knew his children were well again.
And the Hans, they also say it.
"What really makes wishes come true -
is the trust in the heart."
Keep it by your heart.
And when we're together
again, you will return it.
l will.
Otherwise, I'll come after you, if
I have to cross the entire desert.
And next time,
I will show you no mercy.
I tried to make my mark, but wherever I went, someone always recognised me.
I really tried.
Then I heard you'd moved here.
I was afraid you were gone forever.
So I came.
Don't get married like this.
Go away.
Jiāolóng.
Don't ever come back again.
So that is it?
It is.
(KNOCK AT DOOR)
MAID: We heard noises.
Is everything all right?
It's just a bat.
Do you think Bìyǎn Húli will show up?
There is no doubt she is out there.
But she is not about
to let herself be seen.
We will be on the alert because I know she is
going to come for the girl, sooner or later. She must.
(PEOPLE CHATTERING)
Jiāolóng!
(PEOPLE SCREAMING)
Jiāolóng! Come with me to Xin Jiang.
(HORSE NEIGHING)
Jiāolóng! You're mine!
No one matters but you and me!
Live with me in the village!
Jiāolóng!
Jiāolóng, come on for Xin Jiang.
Tell me. Where is Jade Fox hiding?
Come. Hurry.
XIÙLIÁN: Did you really think she would give everything
up and go back to the desert with you?
I want her.
LĬ MÙBÁI: Want her
or not, as a corpse,
you would not be of much use to anybody.
With the Yù and Lǔ clans hunting you,
it will not be long
before you are in their hands.
Who cares?
That does not sound like someone in love.
Do you not want to see
her again, if it can be arranged?
I will write you a note.
Take it to Wudang.
Wait there until you hear.
All right.
When will all this come to an end?
They take it away, they put it back.
Take it away, put it back.
My house is becoming everyone's private storeroom.
What is it?
Speak.
The governor's daughter has run away.
When the bridegroom entered the wedding chamber, it was empty.
The governor asks if you
could enjoin your Jiang Hu contacts
to help Lord Jūn
to find his young wife.
In order to keep her from harm.
Bèi-lèyé, let us search for the woman.
We will find her.
What can I bring you?
A cup that's washed.
Hello there.
You mind if I ask your name?
It's Long.
So, it's young Master Long. Greetings.
I am Eagle Sung Ming,
is what they call me.
And this is Flying Cougar
Li Yùn, my fellow brother.
And what brings you to Huai An
and where are you headed, young Master Long?
Anywhere there's a need.
In that case, Master Long, perhaps
we could assist you some how.
I rather doubt it.
It appears young Master Long has not understood.
And if I have not?
We have ways of helping you understand.
(CLATTERING)
Are you, by chance,
a relative of Lǐ Mùbái's?
No, I've just beaten him.
XIÙLIÁN: Some tea.
Xiùlián.
The things we can touch have no permanence.
It is all an illusion.
The master will say, "A man's
primary need is to let go -
only then can he
possess what is truly real."
Yes, I am sure
many things are an illusion.
Yet some are hopelessly real. Like my hand.
Wasn't that real?
Rough and callused.
The hand of a *xiangtao master.
How I've longed to
touch it and never dared.
Xiùlián.
We are beset with peril
and it is not weapons.
The real danger resides in the human heart.
I tried to leave the
Jiang Hu world for you.
And look what trouble that has brought us.
The feelings one represses just strengthen.
You are right, but
what do I do then?
What I would like is us.
Together as we are here.
It gives me a sense of infinite peace.
(PEOPLE CHATTERING)
(MUSlC PLAYING)
This way please.
I want a clean table.
- They are all clean here.
What would you like?
Some steamed whole cod, fried rice, sharkfin
soup, meatballs and keep the sauce light.
A nice selection of vegetables.
Oh, and a bottle of warm wine.
Oh, there's only one cook.
Then get him started.
Yes.
GANGSTER 1 : That is him.
The others call me Iron Arm Mǐ
-Dà Biāo.
I understand there is a true master here.
I seek a lesson.
But it is a lesson you shall have!
(MEN MURMURING)
(YELLING)
What kind of Iron Arm are you?
(SCREAMING)
(PEOPLE CLAMOURING)
That is astounding artistry.
I am Echoing Cutlass. Pardon me.
But do you happen to
be related to Giant Crane?
A big duck? Your names are so long-winded.
It's a miracle you ever
get to fighting at all.
You!
It was Lǐ Mùbái's master's professional name.
You should know it if you beat Lǐ.
You should have one
too, like we all do.
Such as?
Such as Fierce Eyed Tiger Lǔ Jūn Shun.
Lǔ?
A name I abhor.
When I hear it,
my ears start to ache.
I feel like vomiting and suddenly I
cannot hold back my sword hand's anger!
Do you dare challenge Brother Jing?
Ah, a meat-eating monk!
You need a lesson, too.
Who do you think you are?
You want to know who I am?
I am...
The invincible Sword Goddess!
With the Green Destiny that knows no equal!
be it Lǐ Mùbái or Giant Crane!
Bow your head and ask for mercy!
I am the dragon from the desert!
Who appears from nowhere and leaves no trace!
Today I fly over Mount Eh
-Mei,
tomorrow, I topple Mount Wudang!
We politely asked for a friendly match, and
showing no respect, she started to attack us.
First one and then another.
So we decided, she had
to be taught a proper lesson.
But her sword was just too powerful.
I have travelled far and wide, but
I have never met anyone so ungracious.
She accused me of being
the brother of Lǔ Jūn Pèi.
Who is this Lǔ Jūn Pèi, any how?
Her husband.
(PEOPLE MURMURING)
We are not far from the warehouse.
Why don't you go and see how things are?
Are you coming?
I want to have a look around, all right?
I will join you later.
All right.
Let's spend tonight at the warehouse
so we get a good night's sleep.
Very well.
Miss, welcome back.
- Thank you.
Oh, it is good
to see you again, Miss.
Oh, it is nice to be here.
How is everything?
Fine.
We were beginning to
wonder what happened to you.
You know how it is.
I leave again tomorrow.
How is your wife?
She had a little girl.
Oh, that's wonderful.
I will be happy if she
is half the woman you are.
Wú Mā.
You're back!
It is good to see you.
How is your arm doing?
Much better. And you?
You have been gone so long,
I was starting to worry.
Wú Mā, Mùbái is
spending the night with us.
Oh? I'd better tidy up the room.
My sister!
You need clothes - something decent.
Just something clean.
I'm not here to be a guest.
You have been getting around
rather well without my help.
Well, that was near here and...
Sister!
There, there.
Now you know what the
real Jiang Hu life is like.
Listen to the older sister
you came here to see.
You didn't want to wed, but that
doesn't mean you can just run away.
Think of your parents' feelings.
But they made me wed.
Return to them first.
Then you can decide about Xiǎohǔ later.
You know Xiǎohǔ?
The situation may seem hopeless,
but he loves you very much.
Seriously, come to Beijing.
We will find a way.
Where is he?
Lǐ Mùbái has him in hiding.
Lǐ Mùbái?
He sent him to Wudang Mountain.
You're all working together, so
I'll do what you want!
How dare you accuse me
of that, or Lǐ Mùbái!
I knew that you'd stolen
the Green Destiny, from the start!
And what do I
get, but your childish disdain!
For protecting you and your whole family!
Lǐ Mùbái himself, spared you, and
all you did was insult him.
Sister? You have acted more like an enemy!
And killed our hopes for a moment's peace.
So I'm not wrong.
It was bound not to last.
What I wonder is how
long you'd last against my sword?
Put the sword down.
(MEN YELLING)
Jiāolóng!
All of you out.
Bolt the doors.
Fine. Not friends, not sisters.
(GASPS)
(GRUNTS)
Put it down. It is Lǐ Mùbái's sword.
Come get it if you think you can.
You would be just a novice without it.
Don't blame the weapon
if you can't beat me.
(CLATTERING)
Go ahead. Go pick anything.
I'll wait.
Whatever you want.
Give me that sword.
Take it!
LĬ MÙBÁI: That's enough!
You are not worthy of that sword.
Are you lecturing again? Stand!
This ends right here.
Only the sword will determine that!
I held back at the monastery.
I wanted to know who you were.
What do you know
about true hearts and loyalty?
(GROANS)
(SCREAMS)
What is it that you want?
What I have always
wanted - to instruct you.
Only if, in three moves, you get
the Green Destiny out of my hand.
Will I let you.
That wasn't what -
- Bow to your teacher!
Never!
In that case, you don't need this!
(THUNDER RUMBLING)
It would only be a matter of
time before they dragged you back to Beijing.
But your parents will never accept you again.
And since you've gone
this far, why go home?
The world is ours.
And you'll always be my Lady.
And no one will rule over us.
We'll be happy - that
is the most important thing.
Anyway, all we have left is each other.
Ah, lie back, try to sleep.
Crazy girl like that,
you should have killed her.
I did not have the heart to.
Lǐ Mùbái - let
him take care of it.
Is it the girl
or the sword you want?
You have been drugged.
Where is she hiding?
What has happened?
Bìyǎn Húli has drugged her,
I'm pulling her out.
How did you get here?
We followed her after
spotting her near the warehouse.
Get down!
(SCREAMING)
Master!
And so you die.
And so shall you.
The needle is...
Yes, the needle is poisoned.
You deserve to die.
But it was Jiāolóng I was aiming at.
Ten years I devoted to you
but you deceived me.
You hid the manual's true meaning.
I never got better
while your skill was... got greater then greater.
You know what poison is?
An eight-year-old girl who is full of deceit.
That is poison.
Jiāolóng.
My only love,
and only rival.
You cannot die. The poison!
Tell us what you used!
Tell me the poison!
The antidote! What is it? Tell me!
I can't let him die!
Lǐ Mùbái mustn't die!
JIĀLÓNG: It's Purple Yin Poison.
What?
Purple Yin Poison.
It goes straight to the heart.
It is the same
poison that killed my master.
The blood, at first, slows down.
And then, gradually, its entire flow is reversed.
There is no antidote.
There has to be. There has to.
There is always an opposite
to everything. Why not this?
Well, there is, in fact.
She taught it to me.
The ingredients aren't hard to find but it takes time to prepare.
But it does exist.
Please, trust me.
Let me do what I can,
as a way to repay you.
All right, it's worth it.
I will try to resist
just as long as I can.
Take my horse to the
warehouse and ask for Wú Mā.
Give her this -
she'll help you. Now go!
Save your energy.
I will come back.
MAN: You again!
Where are you going?
(PEOPLE YELLING)
Wú Mā! Where is she? Wú Mā!
No, wait, no! Let her speak!
Xiùlián said you'd help us.
Let her in!
Mùbái, give me some hope.
Do not desert me.
Xiùlián.
(SHUSHING)
Don't waste your strength.
I feel life going.
Feel I've one last breath left.
Use the strength you have left to meditate.
Do things as you were taught
and free yourself from the world.
Use your last breath to
let your soul rise to eternity.
I am too worthless for
you to waste it on.
I have wasted my entire life
but I did find enlightenment
when at last I realized
that I love you.
I'd rather be a ghost,
floating at your side, seven days
and be together
than enter heaven without you.
My love for you
will always keep me
from being a lonely spirit.
(WHlMPERING)
It's too late?
*Jiāo?
Take this, and return it to Bèi-lèyé.
Now, go to Wudang Mountain.
Xiǎohǔ awaits you there.
And Jiāolóng, promise that whatever
path you take in this life,
you will always be true to yourself.
Jiāolóng!
Where is the girl?
- She went down there.
Jiāolóng.
That legend with the saying about
the young man and the mountain?
That he will have his...
- His wishes granted.
Make a wish, Xiǎohǔ.
That we return to the desert.
Adapted subtitles to work with English language track by: RedEyedBleep
Used Lust4Power's version for basic time stamps for file named:
Crouching.Tiger,.Hidden.Dragon.2000.720p.BluRay.x264-[YTS.AG].mp4
Please do not remove this entry from the subtitle file.
It took me approximately 8 hours to edit the text. Thanks!